- [Instructor] Let's look at the second option
of customized mapping, which helps us
to change the bean attribute names.
Now, by default, we know that JSON Binding API
is going to pick up the names of the instance variables
as keys in the resulting JSON document.
Let's come back to the IDE and let's say,
open the customer class.
So whenever JSON-B is going to serialize
an object of this kind,
then the keys in the JSON document will be
customerid, customerName, emailAddress and isPrimeUser.
However, there's an option with us
to change this default behavior,
and that is done using the @JSONbProperty annotation.
You can apply this either on the field name
or on the getter/setter, one of them.
And let's see how it behaves in both the cases.
Let's go back to the IDE.
And let's say that these two fields is something
that we want to change the names for.
So, I'm going to go on line 14 and say JSONbProperty.
And, I'm going to set the value of this to just id.
I don't want CustomerId coming out in the JSON document,
I just want id.
Similarly, I'll customize the other property too.
Let's say this is name.
Then let's write a test class, quickly.
Say "TestCustomNames."
Let's grab the main meter.
Let's grab the JSON-B default engine instance.
That will be JSON-B = JSONbBuilder.create.
Once that's done, we have to make one thing
that's the customer data.
So, I'm going to go to the data generator class,
get all of that customer mock data line on line number 40,
come back to test class and copy that on line number 20.
The mock data is ready with me.
Now, what I'll do is, I'll quickly employ
the try with resources statement
to write this customer object to a file,
and then, the reader object will read it back.
We've already written that code,
so what I'm going to do is, I'm just going to go
to the test data types, get in that code,
which is this.
I'm trying to write the file from line number 30 to 35.
Then I'm also trying to read, which is line number 37 to 42.
So take this entire code, copy, come back here,
and paste it from line number 23.
Now, what you have to do here is,
we have to change the name of the file firstly,
which is customer.txt.
The object that we want to write on line number 33
is the customer object, not the order object.
Similarly, when you're trying to do the reading
operation on line number 39, we just want
to make sure the file name is correct,
that's what we want to read,
and the type is correct too, which is Customer.class.
And, of course, the reference will also change.
So, let's copy that and put it in the Sys out
input that we have.
Let's make sure everything's right.
We're writing to a customer.txt,
and we're writing the java object to that file.
So it will get serialized.
And on this iteration, we're trying to read it
from the file and convert it to a customer object
and then printing that out on the console.
Let's go ahead and run this file.
Alright, let's see what happened on JSON-B Sample.
Yes, there's a customer file that got generated.
If you see, the names now
that have been picked up for the customization.
Id, and the name.
If you come back to the deserialized code,
this is what happens.
Yes, so it's all working fine.
When it's serialized, it prefers the keys as id and name.
And when it was deserializing, it got the correct
keys, id and name, in the JSON document,
and it deserialized them to the correct
and appropriate properties.
Simple.
Now, we've applied this JSON-B property annotation
on the field name.
But, it can also be employed on the getters or setters.
Now I'm going to come on line number 19,
cut this out, and go to the getCustomerName meter,
here, and paste that annotation.
What this means is that if I'm trying to put
the JSON-B annotation on the getter meter,
then it will prefer this key on serialization.
We have already talked about this before,
that when it does serialization,
it will call the getter meter.
And when it does deserialization,
it will call the setter meter.
Now, on this turn, let's test this out,
and then we learn to send the output.
Let me run this again.
I'm reloading the file.
What happened during serialization is, yes,
the id is still the same,
and what we did is, we preferred the key name
during serialization.
However, if you look at the deserialized output,
you see that you get the customerName as null.
Yes, this is what is going to happen.
It means that during deserialization,
it does not consider that preferred name key.
That is what the difference is.
It'll consider it only during serialization.
So, now, when it tried to deserialize, yes,
in the JSON document, it did find the key name,
but it didn't know that it has to be mapped
to the customerName attribute of this java bean.
That information was not known,
and that's why the customer name has turned out
to be null.
Similarly, you can also apply this on the setter meter,
so let's cut this out and I'll put it
on the setter meter.
So, now, it means that it will prefer this key
on deserialization.
Which means it expects that a key name
is present in the JSON document
so that it can be mapped to the customerName property.
This is the expectation.
Now let's test this out and see what it does.
The file must have been written there,
so I'm reloading it.
Now, during serialization, it just got hold
of the customerName property by default
because nothing was mentioned on the serialization process.
But when it is deserialized, look what happened.
The customer name turned out to be null.
That is because when it tried to deserialize
it expected this key.
However, the file has customerName, right?
So this is what will happen if you try
to specify the properties separately
on the getter or the setter.
So it's always better that you actually try
to specify it on the field level itself
so that the same key, as per your preference,
is going to be considered during both serialization
as well as deserialization.